>> Jem Young: So
let's move on to Grep, finds files.
Grep helps me look inside the files.
The general formula is, grep, the options,
the search expression,
and where we wanna search.
So let's say you have some code that
you modified and you're getting repo,
and you need to free the code itself,
that's where you use grep.
Find the files and
you pipe it in the grep.
And we will be piping things in
the grep later in the day, and
you'll see how useful grep is.
But it's just global regular expression.
I will tell you I am not great
with regular expressions,
I know a little bit but if you're really,
really good at regular expressions,
you know the things you can do.
You can validate email addresses in one
line, you can do lots of powerful things.
For now I just use string searches.
>> Jem Young: Bonus tip.
Let's say you wanna search
a inside a gzip file,
zgrep will search inside a gzip file for
you, which is pretty useful actually.
Because by default, most log files get
compressed after certain amount of time.
Let's say we still wanna search inside
those log files for information,
zgrep is where you wanna go.
So it's the same as regular grep,
just put a z on it, for zipped.
Makes sense, again,
they're naming is just so on point there.
So this one's always useful.
If we wanna find the running node process,
and this is a command I use all
the time because I run Node at work.
Netflix UI is built largely on Node,
at least the website is.
And I have Node processes that
are just eating at that memory and
I wanna find out where they are.
So if I say ps aux,
just saying these are the file,
what's running right now right now for
my user that I've permission to read.
Then we're just gonna look for Node.
So I'm just gonna do that right now.
So this is back on my local machine.
Clear this all out.
Set ps aux, and we've run this by default.
That's a lot of information.
This is why we can pipe it to grep.
So if I say, grep node, and
am I running an instance?
Yes, I'm not running an instance, this is
just returning the instance of grep that
I'm running, it's come full circle.
But it's extremely useful because with
grep, you get all this verbose output and
you get just the things
that you're looking for.
Let's say I wanna find instances that
are running by me Jem Young, the user.
And it's gonna return all that for me.
Not as useful because I'm
the one running the machine.
But ps aux and grepping something is
probably one of the fastest way to tell
what sort of processes
are running on your computer.
For your nginx process, your MySQL server,
you can see all those instances.
And in many instances you
find zombie processes.
You say, I didn't I was running
a PostgreSQL server at this point.
Maybe you were and
you just forgot about it.
ps aux and then greppng that,
super, super useful.
All right,
everybody believe in power for grep and
find?
>> Jem Young: Only a few people.
You will, you'll believe by the end.